[Music]
every year more than 36 million
commercial flights take to the sky and
that number is only growing air travel
can get confusing if it's your first
time and there are a lot of things even
frequent fliers get wrong so to help you
out here are the answers to several
questions almost every passenger has
what happens if the door opens
mid-flight yeah only in the movies if
someone were able to open the door
mid-flight they would be immediately
pulled out of the plane by the sudden
change in air pressure they could also
do serious harm to the aircraft
potentially even causing it to crash
fortunately that's almost impossible the
doors on an airliner open inward while
the cabin pressure pushes them out from
the inside the difference between the
internal and external pressure makes it
impossible for the door to open what are
the rules for electronic devices well
once upon a time you couldn't use any
electronics during a flight but this is
no longer the case most airlines will
let you use small devices as long as
they're on airplane mode laptops need to
be stowed during takeoff or landing but
tablets phones and other handheld
devices are usually allowed just
remember that the device needs to be
secured that means in your hand or your
pocket but not on your lap or tray table
why do seats and tray tables need to be
upright during takeoff and landing
planes are one of the safest modes of
transportation out there still when
accidents happen it's usually during
takeoff or landing in the event of an
emergency the last thing anyone needs is
to get stuck in their seat this is also
one of the reasons that large devices
like laptops aren't allowed during these
times it's too easy for them to wind up
on the floor and trip people up
our older plane safe what do you mean by
the idea little whippersnapper yeah you
probably aren't still using a laptop
from 1999 and your computer isn't flying
at close to the speed of sound
fortunately planes have a much longer
lifespan than computers there are
airliners from the early 1970s that are
still just fine they might not be able
to keep up in terms of speed and fuel
efficiency but older planes are no less
safe than their modern counterparts and
here's a bonus fact the oldest aircraft
still officially in service is a Boeing
kc-135 Stratotanker which has been used
for midair refueling since 1957 way to
airplanes fly so high most commercial
planes flight an altitude up around
35,000 feet they don't technically need
to be up so high but that altitude gives
the best speed and efficiency air gets
thinner at higher altitudes which means
less wind resistance but less left for
most commercial aircraft the area
between 30,000 and 40,000 feet is the
sweet spot where the two factors balance
out why do window shades need to be open
during landing it might seem odd that
the flight crew cares whether your
window shades are up or down sounds
rather shady to me actually the main
reason is so the passengers eyes can
adjust to the outside light mostly it's
just a matter of getting people on and
off quickly but in an emergency the last
thing they want is people stopping to
blink before they evacuate the plane
where does the flight crew sleep on
long-haul flights normally in the Isles
in first-class they're a bit wider and
more comfortable no I made that up you
can't seriously expect someone to sit
behind the controls for the duration of
a 17-hour flight on most flights longer
than seven or eight hours pilots have
access to a specially designed rest seat
in or near the cockpit flight attendants
typically have a section of the cabin
reserved for them and it's sometimes
separated from the passenger areas some
larger aircraft even feature private
crew quarters above or below the main
cabin have you ever been on an 18-hour
flight what's the longest time you ever
had to spend sitting in one place leave
your answer in the comments below what
are the numbers on airport runways mean
no it's not the number of mishaps per
runway ever notice the numbers at the
end of the runway they're actually used
to show the pilot which direction the
plane is facing for example the number
36 is short for a heading of 360 degrees
or due north along with the numbers the
letters R and L indicate if the nearest
runway is to the left or right what are
the colored lights on the wings the
lights on the tips of a plane's wings
are called position lights or navigation
lights and they're used during times of
reduced visibility they help plane see
each other in the dark and can also tell
pilots what direction and aircraft is
traveling the red lights mark the tip of
the left wing while the green light is
on the right the third light is white
and found on or near the tail what
causes the white trails planes leave in
the sky contrails are easily mistaken
for engine exhaust but most are nothing
more than water vapor during a flight
moisture in the air collects in the
engines before being vented with the
exhaust the hot wet air leaving the
engines mixes with the freezing dry air
found at high altitudes resulting in
long thin lines of vapor humidity
determines when contrails form and
long they remain visible what does it
mean when the crew times out
have they been bad and need to go sit in
the corner no according to regulations
pilots can't be on duty for more than 14
hours at a time and they shouldn't be at
the controls for more than nine timing
out refers to when the crew has worked
for the maximum number of hours this is
mostly a safety issue so it's taken very
seriously fortunately most airlines are
careful to schedule shifts around these
requirements what happens to items
confiscated by security before boarding
hey would you like to see what's in my
garage now not really if you find
yourself with a forbidden item security
will usually let you leave to put it in
your car most airports will also give
you the option of storing it in your
check bags if you're running out of time
to board your flight
you can ask them to hold it in the
lost-and-found until you get back but be
careful since it isn't always easy to
get your property back and before you go
here's one more bonus fact one of the
most common items to be left behind at
the airport are laptop computers you see
laptops need to be taken out of their
carrying case for inspection and it's
incredibly common for passengers to
forget their computer and walk off with
an empty case Denver International
Airport once collected a pile of 95
laptops in just one month Wow hey if you
learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life